# Final Book Proposal
### Gwendolyn McManus

For my final book project, I am going to be creating a short video game that will have some qualities of a narrative and some qualities of a 'reference' text. In addition to narrative and reference elements, the layout of the game will be a 'sequence of spaces', and by tying these three things together I will hopefully encourage the player to view the project as a book. I haven't created the narrative yet, but I am currently planning on building it around a theme of 'home' (which will also tie in the idea of the reference book--i.e., a catalog of the things that we take with us which allow us to feel more comfortable in an unfamiliar space). I am not going to be the protagonist, but I want to build in a lot of my own interests, and allow the player to dig deep into the world by exploring tiny details in every part. I am going to be working on this final project by myself.

During our meeting, I showed you a fairly simple idea of what I want the game to look like: the whole thing will be drawn as isometric pixel art, with particular attention paid to color palettes and purposeful lighting. My goal is to give the entire game a sort of strange, dreamlike feel. Over the next few days I'm going to add some reference images to the Github to help convey the direction I want this project to go. The adventure game Hyper Light Drifter and the puzzle app Monument Valley are two sources I'm going to feature heavily, because these games have incredible atmospheres that I want to work on emulating a bit. 

The software I will be using is Adventure Game Studio, a free and open-source program for game design. It's aimed at 'intermediate-level' developers, which I am decidedly not, so I'm expecting to encounter a rather steep learning curve as I move forward with development and attempt more and more complex things. I will be heavily reliant on YouTube or web tutorials to teach me, and will likely be joining a few forums for when I need more personalized advice or troubleshooting. At this point, I am optimistic about my ability to take on a self-teaching project of this magnitude, but I'm going to stay realistic and be open to simplifying my initial ideas if I have to. Fortunately, my project being all (or mostly) digital means that I don't need to worry about acquiring materials or workspace, so the only concern is the acquisition of skills.

As my skills develop and I learn more about the capabilities and limitations of AGS, I am expecting that my plan for the game's content, as well as the balance between narrative/reference/spatial elements, will change some. The final version will hopefully still focus on the original theme mentioned above, but it may lean more toward one element or another. 

I know that I'm going to approach this project from a perfectionist standpoint, and that I will work very hard to get it up to my own standards. Despite that, I'm going to be essentially teaching myself how to code with no prior experience, and I think that the evaluation criteria should take that into account. My primary goals for this book at its end are that the result is fully playable (has a beginning and end, with a functioning system of controls and a playable character) and contains all of its narrative and reference elements. Although this is an arbitrary measurement, I would like the game to have at least 20-30 minutes of content (i.e. it contains more information than you can absorb in that time, and is interesting to consume for at least that long). If the project meets all of those criteria, I believe I will be satisfied with the outcome. However, if I reach the midpoint and am struggling with these criteria, I will attempt to reassess what I expect from the project and try to come up with a revised plan.