# Reflective: Print II

#### Gwendolyn McManus

## Sense of place through typography

Since reading _Brooklyn In Your (Type)Face_, I've been thinking about the Bushwick font being designed by Pablo Medina. The idea of a typeface inspired by a location is novel to me, but while reading the article I was fascinated by the images of his typeface interspersed with photographs taken around the neighborhood. Without those reference pictures, you _might_ be able to infer that the letterforms were inspired by graffiti or street art, but not much else. I loved seeing the comparison between the two, because it was possible to see every aspect of his typeface reflected in some aspect of the local art he was referring back to. While reading the article, it seems like Medina is really focused on how his typeface ties into the neighborhood he designed it from.

At the end, however, Medina says, "I rarely design my fonts with specific uses in mind. I'm driven mostly by aesthetics and style and I let the people who use the fonts decide on their applications." I was surprised to read that, particularly juxtaposed against the rest of the article. Throughout the piece he emphasizes how letterforms across the neighborhood, from graffiti to hand-lettered signs for local businesses, are inspiring the Bushwick typeface. You might expect that someone with that much love for and dedication to the unique identity of their neighborhood would be opposed to having its aesthetic co-opted by someone else without any thought to its origin. This was discussed in class, and the consensus seemed to be that if the artist was okay with it, then there were no issues. While I agree that this means it isn't morally wrong to use the font for whatever you want, typefaces tied to specific locations are rare. It's unusual to be in a position where you _can_ be purposeful about your use of a typeface based on its geographic origin, so it seems like an opportunity you should take advantage of when given the chance. 

I was interested to see if there were any previous instances of typefaces being created to capture the identity of a place. I found an article <a href= "https://www.theguardian.com/cities/2015/jan/13/subliminal-power-city-fonts-typeface-design">here</a> about Eindhoven, a city in Netherlands, which commissioned a font to help them rebrand themselves after the loss of a major corporation. This situation differs from that of Medina's Bushwick typeface, because it was an official part of the city's marketing strategy and represented a collaboration between a number of designers instead of being a single person relying on crowdfunding. The goal for Eindhoven's typeface was to depict a city moving into a new age of start-ups and creative thought. I thought this was interesting because Medina's goal is almost the opposite. "People think the neighborhood is all artists and hipsters but the immigrant community has been here for decades", he says, and that community gives him the aesthetic basis for his typeface. Rather than focus on the changes coming to Bushwick, he aims to pay homage to the things that are staying the same.

The article I linked above from _The Guardian_ wound up sending me down the rabbithole of location-based typography. Cities from Stockholm, Sweden to Chattanooga, Tennessee are having custom typefaces created in for rebranding efforts. That was what all these other typefaces I've found have in common: they're created for the purpose of rebranding, almost always done in close collaboration with the city itself. This observation has allowed Bushwick to remain separate from these other typefaces in my mind; instead of focusing on what could be, Medina shows the audience what already is.

