# Reflective: E-Lit II
### Gwendolyn McManus
## limitless text
I really enjoyed _With Those We Love Alive_, particularly because I think it reminded me of a childhood game that was a kind of verbal version of this 'format' of E-lit (or text-based video game; I think you could call it either). Being presented with a blank slate and a series of 'weird'/unsettling/seemingly unimportant choices has always been compelling to me. When it was played with my friends, it was a limitless set of choices based on whatever the narrator could come up with: you're in a room, a forest, a hollow tree. There's a door, a table, a path, a window. What do you do? I always wanted to play it, probably more than any of my friends ever did. We often got derailed in the way kids do, and failed to make it past the first 'room' before lunch was over or a new game was on the horizon. Or, conversely, we got wrapped up in the details of creating our own player characters and never make it to the game at all. It's interesting that it had such an impact on me--I remember it fondly as if it were a huge part of my childhood, but the truth is that we only played it a couple of times. It just stuck with me, for some reason.

I think that might be part of what I enjoy so much about games like Porpentine's--and a lot of other pieces made in Twine, or Quest, or any of the other text-based games I've come across both in this class and before it. Even if it's not truly limitless, the text basis and the random generation/choices given to the reader make you feel as if the choices could go on forever. Video games where you have a map and a physical presence in a world feel limited, either by a defined map or the finite constraints of procedural generation. Books are contained by their physical boundaries in the same way. Maybe it's just me and my past experiences, but nothing has ever felt quite as strange and vast and unbounded as the simplest text games, like _With Those We Love Alive_ or _A Dark Room_. I can feel the space around me as I play, and when I think about it afterward it feels even more vivid and sprawling.

Overall, I think this is where the value of E-lit really lies, at least to me: it feels like any piece could spread out infinitely in all directions, expanding into an entire world contained in just a few lines of text. I know I mentioned in my last reflective entry that certain E-Lit pieces went overboard with this freedom, resulting in something too cluttered for me to feel that I could appreciate--I definitely don't think that a truly infinite space is what I want from E-Lit. In both games I mention above, there is a sort of base screen: a camp, or a palace, a central hub you can always return to when you don't know where to go next. If something is truly infinite, you might wander so far away that there's no hope of getting back to that first point. How do you mark changes, in a world like that? Everything you left behind could be completely different, and you would never know because you would have no reason to turn around. The simplicity of these home locations, combined with the simplicity of text itself, create a lot of negative space that you can fill in as you play. I think that's what leaves such a lingering impression, and truly makes you feel as thought you've spent time in a world other than this one.