# Reflective: Book Alterities
### Gwendolyn McManus
## Why alter books?
Reading _A Crash Course on Altered Books_ reminded me of something I read way back in middle school. It was a short essay or article of some kind, and it was about the fact that we should not ever show any respect or regard for the physical object of the book--in fact, it almost seemed to advocate for the active destruction of the object. I remember that we discussed it in class, and I said that I liked the sentiment, but found it a little bit too overzealous. The author seemed to snub anyone who would ever value a book's appearance, because "respecting" a book meant ripping pages, writing in the margins, and dog-earing every sheet until the corners fell off. I remember little about the actual words of the essay, but the experience of reading it is still vivid in my mind because I thought it was unsettling the way that this author promoted violence against books and claimed that nothing else was acceptable. Although _A Crash Course on Altered Books_ was about a similar topic, the overall tone of the article felt much softer, and much kinder toward books. The author is advocating for the 'destruction' of books, but in the opposite direction: the essay I remember cared only about the content, whereas an altered book cares about everything but. 

When I was younger, I do think I held too much regard for the preservation of a book's content: seeing book art made me a little sad, because I didn't like to think that the book was no longer readable--it could no longer serve the purpose it was created for. I think that my opinion has changed over time, though, and especially since I started this class. The books that are altered are one of a million nearly-identical copies, so no real content is lost. An individual copy of a book can have personal or sentimental value, but another copy of that same book might mean nothing to anyone in the world, so why not turn it into art?

I was interested when the author said that some artists have a list of books they would never alter for any reason, such as religious texts or books of other artists' works. I wonder if there are artists who have a list of specific books they _do_ want to alter. I treasure my own copies of my favorite books very dearly, but if I were ever to get into book alteration, I might want to use other copies of those books. It seems like it would impact the experience, to know you're painting over or cutting out the words that mean so much to you.

One last thought on the idea of the altered book: I noticed that in many of the pictures in this article, the pages are fairly well-covered by paint--you can sort of see the words in some places, but the artist doesn't seem to be attempting to use the presence of the text in any way. There's no reason they would _have_ to do that, but it made me curious: if you're going to create something "page by page", as the article says, and you're planning to completely change the space on the pages, why bother using an old book at all? The words aren't being actively used in the art; why not buy a blank sketchbook or journal instead? I know there are a million reasons that artists do things the way they do, and that logic/efficiency are often nowhere on their list of priorities (I speak from experience), but the article does seem to really disregard the content of the book and focus on the physical item--so why does the content even matter? Why bother buying something if the resulting creation will be completely unrecognizable?
