# Reflective: Fabrication I: 3D Printing
### Gwendolyn McManus


So far in this class, I think the material we've covered has been somewhat within my range of comfort. Even topics like E-lit and book alterities, which seemed alien to me at first, eventually revealed some commonalities with my existing knowledge and prior interests. This subject, fabrication, has been much more difficult. I don't know why I struggle so much with the application of information presented in these readings--I think it's because I'm having a little bit of trouble relating it to the class as a whole. I understand that fabrication of book objects, whatever they may be, is an important part of the process (it would be hypocritical if I didn't, given my preference for the printed codex over other storytelling devices), but I've never had to consider the subject of 'fabrication' on its own. These readings focus on objects which _could_ be called books, depending on the definition you apply, but most of them are much further away from the typical 'book' than other things we've discussed.

My unfamiliarity with the topic in question aside, it was disappointing to find that several of the highlighted projects from _Making Things and Drawing Boundaries_ which I found the most interesting had little to no information given about them. I was especially interested in _Glitch Console_, which has only a few sentences on its project page. The creator, Nina Belojevic, has a short piece about it published on her own website, but she provides a link to a longer article that doesn't seem to exist anymore. This was disappointing, because I think the idea of intentionally creating glitches in a video game system--both as an alternative way of studying video games and a means of commenting on exploitation in the industry--does tie in with some of the things we've discussed in class before. Belojevic uses a unique container, a game system, to alter its contents in a way that comments on both the container and the contents. It reminds me of other types of book alterities or artist's books, where you can't separate the finished product into separate pieces: all parts have to remain together for any sort of purpose to emerge.

I'm also really interested in 3D printing--I remember learning about the technology when I was a lot younger and being blown away by how limitless it seemed. The concept that you could design and create whatever physical objects you wanted, so easily, seemed impossible. I remember the first time I saw one, but I don't remember what it was; I just remember seeing the smooth movement of the extruder as it built up some little plastic statue, and I imagined being able to see my own creations made that way. Seeing the things that 3D printing is capable of now, especially since printers are becoming more and more readily accessible, I can't wait to see what the technology will evolve to be capable of. There was a little hint of that in the PopSci article, with the prototyping of a book sculpted to look like Einstein's head. Once you can reliably 3D print a book, I feel like the codex opens up as a medium. Book alterities and sculptural books (like the Einstein head) can be created fresh off the press, rather than having to alter a traditional book. I feel like this does take away some of the charm of an altered book, but it also lets the artist do things they couldn't do to a 'typical' book, like making the pages thicker or having the text cut out rather than printed. Maybe we'll even be able to 3D print paper books one day. <a href = "<https://www.3dnatives.com/en/paper-pulp-printer-launched-replaces-plastic-3d-prints-paper-waste-091120184/>">This article</a> talks about an artist named Beer Holthius who is already using a 3D printer called the Paper Pulp Printer. The article cites a couple issues with the technology (like clogging or jams), but I can easily see this being used to create book-related artwork in the near future.