# Reflective: E-lit I
### Gwendolyn McManus

I think that _What Football Will Look Like in the Future_ exemplifies what E-lit should do: use technology to tell stories in a way that they couldn't be told in print (or even stories that couldn't be told in print, period). 

I've always been someone who preferred physical books over e-readers, but I've also grown up accustomed to using technology for lots of other things. I don't know why the idea of an e-book feels wrong to me; maybe it was an opinion I picked up from a friend or family member, or maybe it was truly because I loved the feeling of cracking open a paper book. Either way, it's a sentiment I've continued to hold--even though I could carry around access to dozens of books on my phone or computer, I still prefer the bulkier, analog option. E-lit, on the other hand, is something that I can get behind. I think my first exposure to the E-lit genre was actually in middle school, when a friend introduced me to the webcomic _Homestuck_, an incredibly long and involved story with a very, very dedicated cult fanbase. I didn't know what E-lit was at the time, but Homestuck has a lot in common with What Football Will Look Like in the Future--both utilize storytelling mechanics that would be unwieldy or impossible in any other format. Homestuck was the first time I saw gifs and videos being used in storytelling; it also frequently contained conversations between characters differentiated by text color and typing style. Unfortunately, Homestuck's greatest assets were eventually what ruined it for me--the Internet is essentially unlimited space, and the creator continued to expand outward until the story was so convoluted and multi-layered that I could no longer keep up with or care about all of the characters and ongoing storylines. What Football Will Look Like in the Future, on the other hand, is a much better example of E-lit that takes advantage of the genre without over-exploiting it. 

Another reason I've typically found myself preferring paper books is the difficulty I have with reading on screens. In the _Nautilus_ reading, the author brings up a study which found that students thought they could read something on a screen faster than on paper; they were also shown to perform worse on a reading comprehension test when compared with those who read a printed version of the same thing. This led into the discussion of "effortful reading" vs. skimming text for a shallow overview of what it says. I've always found that I struggle with reading on a screen. I've gotten better by necessity in college, but the printed thing always seemed better. I think that this gap in expectations for digital vs printed text is a good explanation: when I read on a screen, I find myself speeding up, skipping lines, or scrolling around sometimes without purpose if I get bored or disengaged with the text. I'd never considered it before; I thought there had to be something inherently different about words on a screen compared to words on paper, but maybe that isn't it. It seems to have more to do with the uses for each object, and the way I've inadvertently trained myself to interact with a computer as compared to a book. One significant thing, which I suspect contributes a great deal to my distraction with screens, is the fact that computers are also the location for many of my hobbies (outside of reading). These are things like writing, drawing, and video games, which I often bounce between or multitask among, so to me a screen rarely represents singular, unified focus. 