# Reflective: 'Zines
### Gwendolyn McManus
## 'Zines and similar things
The pages from _Pagan's Head_ were the most interesting part of her book, because reading about the contents of a 'zine isn't enough--you have to be able to see the object itself in order to understand more about the author's intentions. Kennedy emphasizes that the original purpose of her 'zine was to "finally let herself speak", and create a piece of work where she didn't have to be "hidden behind a narrator". Becoming a novelist is on the laundry list of aspirations I have for myself in the future, so I thought this was an interesting comment because I've never thought of a narrator as something to hide behind. A narrator can just as easily be a selection of pieces from yourself that you want to explore from a different point of view, or that you want to put into an unfamiliar situation. It made me wonder what differences there might be between Pagan Kennedy and I that would make her feel limited by the narrator, which is often one of the most malleable and personal parts of the story. 

To return to my original point, about the physical (or digital, in some cases) "object" of the 'zine, I'm interested in the author's total control over the thing they create. It reminds me of artists' books, and makes me think about the way that people like Ulises Carrion felt the need to somehow address the growing separation between authors and publishers in the '70s. Creating a 'zine allowed an author or artist to have complete control over the appearance, construction, and distribution of their work. Kennedy was able to find her voice as a creator through this medium, and it was interesting to read in _'Zine_ about the ways it impacted her life. 

As we've discussed in class and learned from the readings and guest speakers, the 'zine scene is still very much alive. However, my attention was definitely drawn to the ways that the idea of the 'zine have been disseminated into the digital world. The idea of a personally curated tour through the interesting (or mundane) bits of your life, sprinkled in with first- or second-hand contributions from other people, is evocative of the social media platforms my generation has grown up with. Although a Twitter account isn't as customizable as a paper 'zine, it still allows you to share anything you want with whoever happens to come across it--whether you give them your Twitter handle or they stumble across your words on the page of a mutual contact. While Kennedy was talking about the underground artist communities which she often found herself a part of, and which influenced her to start creating her 'zine in the first place, this also made me think of online spaces: groups of people like to carve out their own niches in the endless span of the Internet to gather with like-minded folk and share ideas. It's not the same as living in a house with eight other people, but the feeling of group chats or Discord servers can certainly feel just as cramped. You can't avoid the influence of the other people you gather with, or the exchange of ideas and attitudes, because you're in constant contact and conversation with them.

Even if you don't want to put yourself online, I feel as though the Internet will still impact your 'zines. I know there are online distributors as well as artists selling from their own websites, but I think even the value of the paper 'zine is changed by the fact that it remains physical. It ties back into the idea of digital fatigue that we've been discussing all semester--we feel different about things that we can touch and hold and feel the weight of, which is why some people will prefer Kennedy's method over social media.
