# Reflective: What is a Book?

#### Gwendolyn McManus

## Everything is a book, and books are temporary


Ulises Carrión describes a book as "a sequence of spaces", and though I don't disagree with him, I also recognize that my own definition would be far different. Allowing a _book_ to be, as Borsuk suggests, "a bound codex, a deck of cards, or a series of rooms", among anything else that fits Carrión's loose criteria, is not something I can easily reconcile with my own notions. I find myself wanting to include "portable means of conveyance" in the definition: conveying story, conveying information, conveying experience. By adhering only to Carrión's guidelines, a book can be almost anything. At first, I found this incredibly frustrating. Looking around my room, I can see multiple "sequences of spaces", from the drawers of my dresser to the cluster of empty cups I keep meaning to take to the kitchen. These things feel nothing like books to me, but when compared with work like Alison Knowles' _Big Book_, I start to wonder what these sequences of spaces are capable of telling the 'reader' - they're certainly not thoughtfully created art exhibitions, but they also aren't meaningless. You can learn a lot from someone's clean clothes or dirty dishes. Does that make them 'books'? I would say I am less inclined to say 'no' than I was when I started writing this. 'Book' still seems like the wrong word, but I can attribute that to my own preconceived notions.

As if this first definition is not broad enough, Carrión goes on to add that "a book is also a sequence of moments ... a book is a time-space sequence". By adding these stipulations, anything can be considered a book from the right perspective. A human life is a sequence of moments, after all, which makes all of us books in our own right. 

Something else in the Borsuk reading that I was particularly interested in is the way that our relationship with the book object, particularly the codex, both has and hasn't changed over time. In _The Book as Content_, Borsuk discusses the _commonplace book_, which allowed readers to copy and organize selected pieces of text from other books for future reference. Soon after, she refers to "the highly individual and personal relationship between reader and text" during the Renaissance period. The codex form, coupled with its wide page margins, allowed for personal annotation that served as "a visible and tactile engagement of mind with page". This reminds me a lot of the way that we engage with books now - many still use the margins of books for this purpose. It's a habit we've even carried over into the digital era, where highlighting and annotating text on-screen is second nature to any college student or professor. 

Some things, however, have become drastically different. One of the things that was emphasized in both _The Book_ and in class was the fact that, for most of their existence, the most valuable part of a book has been the material. In the time where a single book took valuable resources and meticulous work to produce, of course the book object was a rare and highly respected medium. In the 21st century, where books are relatively cheap to acquire and anyone who has an interest is capable of building a personal library, we no longer respect the book object. To many of us, 'respect' now means dog-eared pages from multiple rereads, crumpled covers from being shoved into backpacks, and cracked spines from too much time spent face-down on a table. We like our books mangled and faded, because we associate books of lower physical quality with higher quality stories. I bought one of my favorite books completely on impulse, because there was only one copy of it in the store and it looked like it had been in a fistfight; knowing the damage had simply happened during shipping didn't stop me from the instinctual feeling that I had to take it home. The book object has suddenly become the least valuable part of the package, to the point that defacing it is a means of conveying our love.

This brings me to my final thought, on the permanence of the book object. In _The Book as Ephemeral_, Borsuk discusses the way that we have responded to a growing sense that the codex is becoming obsolete. She menttions the attempted digitization of nineteenth- to twenty-first-century ecological research by the Libraries of Fisheries and Oceans Canada, who closed all but four of their branches and wound up never finishing the digitization project, instead selling or throwing out old research. From the perspective of a science major, it's painful to imagine how much work was lost. Even digitally stored data can be at risk of this, Borsuk warns, as technology advances and makes old programs just as obsolete as they once made physical books - nothing is safe. It reminds me of another quote from Ulises Carrión which Borsuk brings up, and which I haven't been able to stop thinking about, even though she notes the satirical nature of much of his work: _"I firmly believe that every book that now exists will eventually disappear."_  
